networking, the threats and bets

networking is how all devices talk to each other, networking is used everywhere even in the real world.

networkings purpose is transmitting, exchanging, or sharing data and resources.
its the same as the real world, when you talk to someone you are giving info which they take in.
networking types below.

LAN (local area network): A LAN connects computers over a relatively short distance, allowing them to share data,
 files, and resources. For example, a LAN may connect all the computers in an office building, school, or hospital.
Typically, LANs are privately owned and managed.

WLAN (wireless local area network): A WLAN is just like a LAN but connections between devices on the network are
made wirelessly.

WAN (wide area network): As the name implies, 
a WAN connects computers over a wide area, such as from region to region or even continent to continent. 
The internet is the largest WAN, connecting billions of computers worldwide. You will typically see collective or 
distributed ownership models for WAN management.

MAN (metropolitan area network): MANs are typically larger than LANs but smaller than WANs. 
Cities and government entities typically own and manage MANs.

PAN (personal area network): A PAN serves one person. For example,
 if you have an iPhone and a Mac, it’s very likely you’ve set up a PAN that shares and syncs content—text messages,
 emails, photos, and more—across both devices.

SAN (storage area network): A SAN is a specialized network that provides access to block-level storage—shared network or
 cloud storage that, to the user, looks and works like a storage drive that’s physically attached to a computer.

CAN (campus area network): A CAN is also known as a corporate area network. A CAN is larger than a LAN but smaller than a WAN.
 CANs serve sites such as colleges, universities, and business campuses.

VPN (virtual private network): A VPN is a secure, point-to-point connection between two network end points
 A VPN establishes an encrypted channel that keeps a user’s identity and access credentials,
or process should receive specific messages.
and the IP address of the destination device.
 as well as any data transferred, inaccessible to hackers (sometimes).

IP address: An IP address is a unique number assigned to every device connected to 
a network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication. 
Each IP address identifies the device’s host network and the location of the device on the host network.
 When one device sends data to another, 
the data includes a ‘header’ that includes the IP address of the sending device 

Ports: A port identifies a specific connection between network devices.
 Each port is identified by a number. 
If you think of an IP address as comparable to the address of a hotel, 
then ports are the suites or room numbers within that hotel. 
Computers use port numbers to determine which application, service,
common types of ports are 80 http 443 https 22 ssh 53 domain name

Packets: small bytes of data used to tranfer data, in small sizes

Internet protocol suite
BGP.
DHCP(v6)
DNS.
FTP.
HTTP.
HTTPS.
IMAP.
LDAP.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Common Network Security Threats.

Malware
Viruses
Spyware
Adware
Trojan horses
Worms
Phishing
Spear phishing
Wi-Fi attacks
Denial of service (DOS) attacks
Distributed Denial of Service (DDOS) attacks.
Unauthorized access.
Man in the middle attacks.
Code and SQL injection attacks.
Privilege escalation.
Insider threats.

malware, usally the purpose of malware is too troll, take control, or use to make money one way or another.
viruses are the same as malware.

spyware has the purpose of capturing infomation that could be used for black mail or extortation. 

adware is used to make a company money by spamming you with ads.

trojan horses is a type of threat the purpose is to hide a bad thing (could be malware could be anything bad),
and make it seem like a good thing.

worms are a type of malware that spread through networks.

phishing is a social engineering attack, with the purpose of getting login infomation.
spear fishing is the same thing but to more then 1 person.

DOS attacks, a dos attack occurs when 1 computer sends out a bunch of request to another computer, website.
DDOS attacks, a ddos attack occurs when more then 1 computer spams request to another computer, website
via botnet (botnet is a type of malware).


Unauthorized access
Unauthorized access refers to attackers accessing a network without receiving permission. 
Among the causes of unauthorized access attacks are weak passwords, 
lacking protection against social engineering, previously compromised accounts, and insider threats.

Man in the middle attacks
A man in the middle attack involves attackers intercepting traffic, either between your network and external sites or within your network. 
If communication protocols are not secured or attackers find a way to circumvent that security, 
they can steal data that is being transmitted, obtain user credentials and hijack their sessions.

 Code and SQL injection attacks
Many websites accept user inputs and fail to validate and sanitize those inputs. 
Attackers can then fill out a form or make an API call, 
passing malicious code instead of the expected data values. 
The code is executed on the server and allows attackers to compromise it.

Privilege escalation
Once attackers penetrate your network, they can use privilege escalation to expand their reach. 
Horizontal privilege escalation involves attackers gaining access to additional, adjacent systems, and 
vertical escalation means attackers gain a higher level of privileges for the same systems.

Insider threats
A network is especially vulnerable to malicious insiders, 
who already have privileged access to organizational systems. 
Insider threats can be difficult to detect and protect against, 
because insiders do not need to penetrate the network in order to do harm. 
New technologies like User and Even Behavioral Analytics (UEBA) can help identify suspicious or 
anomalous behavior by internal users, which can help identify insider attacks.





 